contact/index.md, before:

---
layout: main
title: Contact
---

I love hearing from people and talking tech. However — and I am being frank here — I have a very active kiddo. And a full time gig. And a kiddo (who would like you to know that she is definitely not a baby). Did I mention the kiddo?

Regardless, please don't let this scare you off from sending me a message. Replies might just take a bit longer than expected. Let's chat!

{:.contact-options}
{:.icon .icon-envelop} <span class="sr-only">E-mail</span>
: [joni@jhalabi.com](mailto:joni@jhalabi.com)

{:.icon .icon-twitter} <span class="sr-only">Twitter</span>
: [@jonihalabi](https://twitter.com/jonihalabi)

{:.icon .icon-goodreads} <span class="sr-only">Goodreads</span>
: [Goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/jonihalabi)

{:.icon .icon-github} <span class="sr-only">GitHub</span>
: [@thatdevgirl](https://github.com/thatdevgirl)

{:.icon .icon-linkedin} <span class="sr-only">LinkedIn</span>
: [linkedin.com/in/jonihalabi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jonihalabi/)

Commit message:

Site refactor and minor redesign (#1)
* color refactor to css variables

* aria label tweaks

* icon font update

* major refactoring everywhere

* refactor, in progress

* color refactor to css variables

* aria label tweaks

* icon font update

* major refactoring everywhere

* refactor, in progress

* refactor of main tag and work page styles

* refactoring contact, speaking, and home pages. oh yeah, pagination too

* refactoring book styles

* css refactoring

contact/index.md, after:

---
layout: main
title: Contact
---

I love hearing from people and talking tech. However — to put it bluntly — I have a very active kid. And a full time gig. And a kid (who has attained "big girl" status). And a [book](/book) that I'm promoting. Did I mention my big girl?

Regardless, please don't let this scare you off from sending me a message. Replies might just take a bit longer than expected. Let's chat!

{:.contact-options}
{:.icon .icon-envelope} <span class="sr-only">E-mail</span>
: [joni@jhalabi.com](mailto:joni@jhalabi.com)

{:.icon .icon-twitter} <span class="sr-only">Twitter</span>
: [@jonihalabi](https://twitter.com/jonihalabi)

{:.icon .icon-goodreads} <span class="sr-only">Goodreads</span>
: [goodreads.com/jonihalabi](https://www.goodreads.com/jonihalabi)

{:.icon .icon-github} <span class="sr-only">GitHub</span>
: [@thatdevgirl](https://github.com/thatdevgirl)

{:.icon .icon-linkedin} <span class="sr-only">LinkedIn</span>
: [linkedin.com/in/jonihalabi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jonihalabi/)
