source/coding/index.md, before:

---
layout: coding
title: Coding
redirect_from:
  - /work/

projects:
  - title: Besan Block plugin
    icon: plugin-icon-besan-block.jpg
    description: Add a responsive, accessible data chart block to the WordPress post editor.
    links:
      - url: https://wordpress.org/plugins/besan-block/
        text: Download
        aria_label: Download the Besan Block plugin
      - url: https://github.com/thatdevgirl/besan-block
        text: Github
        aria_label: Besan Block Github repo

  - title: Block Controller plugin
    icon: plugin-icon-block-controller.jpg
    description: Allow WordPress site administrators to control access to content blocks.
    links: 
      - url: https://wordpress.org/plugins/block-controller/
        text: Download
        aria_label: Download the Block Controller plugin
      - url: https://github.com/thatdevgirl/block-controller
        text: Github
        aria_label: Block Controller Github repo

  - title: Color Palette plugin
    icon: plugin-icon-color-palette.jpg
    description: Add a custom block to the WordPress post editor to display color swatches.
    links: 
      - url: https://wordpress.org/plugins/color-palette/
        text: Download
        aria_label: Download the Color Palette plugin
      - url: https://github.com/thatdevgirl/wordpress-color-palette
        text: Github
        aria_label: Color Palette Github repo

  - title: Color swatch generator
    icon: code-icon-color-swatch-generator.jpg
    description: Generate a downloadable color swatch, including the color's hex, RGB, and CYMK values.
    links: 
      - url: https://color.thatdevgirl.com/
        text: Live site
        aria_label: Live Site of Color Swatch Generator"
      - url: https://github.com/thatdevgirl/color-palette-standalone
        text: Github
        aria_label: GitHub for Color Swatch Generator

  - title: CSV to JSON converter
    icon: code-icon-csv-to-json.jpg
    description: Convert a CSV file to JSON. That’s it!
    links:
      - url: https://gist.github.com/thatdevgirl/4566dac603ff9749b3b81e13b34d1eb8
        text: Github Gist
        aria_label: Github Gist for the CSV to JSON converter

  - title: Mimeocode
    icon: code-icon-mimeocode.jpg
    description: Copy boilerplate code for new projects, cloned from personal GitHub repos using Node.
    links: 
      - url: https://github.com/thatdevgirl/mimeocode
        text: Github
        aria_label: Github for Mimeocode

  - title: WC Tiered Shipping plugin
    icon: plugin-icon-wc-tiered-shipping.jpg
    description: Add a tiered flat rate shipping option to the WooCommerce plugin.
    links: 
      - url: https://wordpress.org/plugins/wc-tiered-shipping/
        text: Download
        aria_label: Download the WC Tiered Shipping plugin
      - url: https://github.com/thatdevgirl/woocommerce-tiered-flat-rate
        text: Github
        aria_label: WC Tiered Shipping Github repo

---

<section markdown="1" class="coding-intro" aria-label="Introduction">

As a self-appointed “middle-end” developer, I like to write code, commit often, and make up my own titles. My development career has evolved over a wide range of industries, including e-commerce, non-profit, and education. 

In my more recent development projects, I have specialized in content architecture and WordPress editor customizations. As a developer at [Georgetown University](https://georgetown.edu), I wrote over 50 custom WordPress blocks, using ReactJS, PHP, and the Gutenberg API.

I also [write technical articles](/blog/) about my work, teach introductory development classes, and [speak](/speaking/) at technical conferences.

</section>


<section markdown="1" class="coding-resume" aria-label="Resume">

* <a href="joni-halabi-resume.pdf" class="ri-list-check-3">View my resume</a>
* <a href="https://github.com/thatdevgirl" class="ri-github-fill">Checkout GitHub</a>
* <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/jonihalabi/" class="ri-linkedin-box-fill">Connect on LinkedIn</a>
{.button-row}

</section>

Commit message:

updates to coding status and I read another book

source/coding/index.md, after:

---
layout: coding
title: Coding
redirect_from:
  - /work/

projects:
  - title: Besan Block plugin
    icon: plugin-icon-besan-block.jpg
    description: Add a responsive, accessible data chart block to the WordPress post editor.
    links:
      - url: https://github.com/thatdevgirl/besan-block
        text: Github
        aria_label: Besan Block Github repo

  - title: Block Controller plugin
    icon: plugin-icon-block-controller.jpg
    description: Allow WordPress site administrators to control access to content blocks.
    links:
      - url: https://github.com/thatdevgirl/block-controller
        text: Github
        aria_label: Block Controller Github repo

  - title: Color Palette plugin
    icon: plugin-icon-color-palette.jpg
    description: Add a custom block to the WordPress post editor to display color swatches.
    links:
      - url: https://github.com/thatdevgirl/wordpress-color-palette
        text: Github
        aria_label: Color Palette Github repo

  - title: Color swatch generator
    icon: code-icon-color-swatch-generator.jpg
    description: Generate a downloadable color swatch, including the color's hex, RGB, and CYMK values.
    links: 
      - url: https://color.thatdevgirl.com/
        text: Live site
        aria_label: Live Site of Color Swatch Generator"
      - url: https://github.com/thatdevgirl/color-palette-standalone
        text: Github
        aria_label: GitHub for Color Swatch Generator

  - title: CSV to JSON converter
    icon: code-icon-csv-to-json.jpg
    description: Convert a CSV file to JSON. That’s it!
    links:
      - url: https://gist.github.com/thatdevgirl/4566dac603ff9749b3b81e13b34d1eb8
        text: Github Gist
        aria_label: Github Gist for the CSV to JSON converter

  - title: Mimeocode
    icon: code-icon-mimeocode.jpg
    description: Copy boilerplate code for new projects, cloned from personal GitHub repos using Node.
    links: 
      - url: https://github.com/thatdevgirl/mimeocode
        text: Github
        aria_label: Github for Mimeocode

  - title: WC Tiered Shipping plugin
    icon: plugin-icon-wc-tiered-shipping.jpg
    description: Add a tiered flat rate shipping option to the WooCommerce plugin.
    links: 
      - url: https://github.com/thatdevgirl/woocommerce-tiered-flat-rate
        text: Github
        aria_label: WC Tiered Shipping Github repo

---

<section markdown="1" class="coding-intro" aria-label="Introduction">

As a self-appointed “middle-end” developer, I like to write code, commit often, and make up my own titles. My development career has evolved over a wide range of industries, including e-commerce, non-profit, and education. 

In my more recent development projects, I specialized in content architecture and WordPress editor customizations. As a developer at [Georgetown University](https://georgetown.edu), I wrote over 50 custom WordPress blocks, using ReactJS, PHP, and the Gutenberg API.

I recently made the decision to take a step back from full-time coding, in order to make space for other professional and personal priorities. That being said, I still [write technical articles](/blog/) about my work and [speak](/speaking/) at the occasional technical conference or podcast.

</section>


<section markdown="1" class="coding-resume" aria-label="Resume">

* <a href="joni-halabi-resume.pdf" class="ri-list-check-3">View my resume</a>
* <a href="https://github.com/thatdevgirl" class="ri-github-fill">Checkout GitHub</a>
* <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/jonihalabi/" class="ri-linkedin-box-fill">Connect on LinkedIn</a>
{.button-row}

</section>
